Hi everyone, and welcome to
the final module of course four.
In this module, we'll discuss
the lowest level of
our hierarchical motion planner,
which is the local planner.
As a reminder,
the local planner is
the portion of the
hierarchical planner that
executes the maneuver
requested by
the behavior planner
in a collision-free,
efficient, and
comfortable manner.
This results in
either a trajectory,
which is a sequence
of points in space at
given times or a path
and velocity profile,
which is a sequence of points in
space with the required
velocities at each point.
This plan can then be given as
the reference input to
the controllers that you
developed in course one.
In this module, we'll build upon
the introductory reactive planner
we developed back in module four,
such that it is able
to handle some of
the nuances presence in
the autonomous driving
motion planning problem.
In particular, we'll move from
the discrete time to
continuous time in order to
produce smooth
parameterized paths
that are easy to track
with our controllers.
In this video, we'll introduce
the path planning problem
and its associated constraints
and boundary conditions.
As well, we'll discuss
parametric curves and
how they are useful for
representing paths
for this problem.
In particular, you should
understand the difference between
splines and spirals in
the context of motion planning,
and the advantages and
drawbacks of each.
So let's get started.
The first step in understanding
the path planning problem
is to first understand its
most fundamental requirements.
For the path planning problem,
this is given
a starting position,
heading, and curvature,
find a path to an ending
position heading and
curvature that satisfies
our kinematic constraints.
In the context of
an optimization,
the starting and
end values can be
formulated as the boundary
conditions of the problem,
and the kinematic motion of
the vehicle can be formulated as
continuous time constraints
on the optimization variables.
In this context,
the boundary conditions
are the conditions
that must hold on
either end point of the path for
a given optimization solution
to be considered feasible.
If these boundary
conditions are violated,
no matter how great the path is,
we haven't achieved
our core objective
of actually getting to
the point we want to get to.
So the path is not useful to us.
These boundary conditions will
influence how we decide to
set up the underlying structure
of the optimization problem.
Let's look at why this is.
For our path planner,
our only kinematic
constraint is going to be
restricting the maximum
curvature along the path.
In general, this is
not easy to satisfy
since there are infinitely
many points along
a continuous path.
Instead, we will
often take samples
of the curvature at
different points along the path,
and constrain the curvature
of each of these points.
Assuming the path is
relatively well-behaved,
this will likely correspond
to the curvature of
the entire path satisfying
the constraint.
To simplify the representation
of our optimization problem,
we're going to define a path
as a parametric curve.
What is a parametric curve?
A parametric curve is a curve
that can be described
as a set of equations
with specific parameters.
These parameters often
denote path traversal,
whether it will be
through arc length
or just varying from zero to one.
For example, here we have
a cubic spline set of
parametric equations for the
x and y positions of a path.
The parameter of the equations
u varies from zero to one,
as we traveled from the start of
the path to the end of the path.
The vector valued function
r contains the x and
y position at each point
corresponding to a given u value.
For autonomous driving,
we often but not
always require the path
to be a parametric curve.
Why is this?
We often focus on planning
methods that optimize
a given path according to
boundary conditions shown here
by Beta naught and Beta f,
kinematic constraints
shown here by Alpha,
and an objective functional
shown here by f. Having
a parametric
representation of the path
make setting up the
optimization problem simpler,
as we have a function we can
directly give to our objective
functional f. Note that
the term functional refers to
mappings that takes a function as
their argument and
return a real value,
so it can be used to
define a cost over
a space of functions or
parametrized curves.
We can contrast
this parametric curve approach
with the reactive planner
in module four,
where we represented
the trajectory and
the path with a sequence
of points in space.
This is known as
a non-parametric path since
the curve we followed did
not have a parametric
representation.
In the field of
autonomous driving,
there are two common types
of path parameterizations.
The first are
quintic splines which are
fifth order polynomial functions
of the x and y
position of the car.
The second type is
the polynomial spiral,
given by a polynomial
curvature function
with respect to arc length.
Pictured here is
a third order polynomial spiral,
a cubic spiral,
both of these parameterized
curves give us
the means to satisfy
the boundary conditions
we just discussed,
and also offer us
parameters to use in
objective functions to craft
the paths according
to our requirements.
Selecting either of
these has associated tradeoffs.
So let's explore
each more deeply.
First, let's discuss
the quintic spline.
The quintic spline is
given by two equations,
one for the
progression of x along
the spline and one for y.
Here we can see that
the quintic spline
has 12 parameters,
six for the x equation and
six for the y equation.
These parameters correspond to
the polynomial coefficients that
form the shape of the curve.
The traversal parameter u
is fairly arbitrary here.
For simplicity, we take it
to be in the range
of zero to one.
What this means is that u equals
zero corresponds to
the start of the path,
and u equals one
corresponds to the end.
A nice property of
the quintic spline is that for
given position heading and
curvature boundary conditions,
there is an immediate
closed form solution
for the spline coefficients
that satisfy them.
The solution is quite long
so we won't listed here,
but it is still cheaper
to evaluate than
generating a path using an
iterative optimization method.
See the supplemental materials
for a full listing.
There are also additional
degrees of freedom which can be
further optimize depending
on this application.
This is desirable because
it allows us to generate
a feasible solution to
the boundary conditions
immediately,
which can be further
refined in anytime fashion.
The downside with quintic splines
is that it is often
hard to constrain
curvature within a certain set of
bounds as is often required
in autonomous driving.
If we look at
the curvature equation
for a parametric curve,
we can see that for
our quintic splines,
the curvature as a function of
arc length will not in
general be a polynomial.
This has the potential
to introduce
cusps or even discontinuities
of the curvature in the spline,
which makes it difficult
to approximately satisfy
curvature constraints across
the entire domain of the spline.
We will discuss
these curvature constraints
in more detail in
our next lesson,
where we set up the optimization
problem for path planning.
As an alternative approach,
we can also employ
polynomial spirals to
represent our path.
These curves offer
a closed form equation
for the curvature
of the curve along each point
of its arc length.
For autonomous driving,
it is common to select
a cubic polynomial as
our curvature function
of arc length.
However, higher-order functions
are also acceptable.
The main positive of using
polynomial spirals is that
their structure is highly
conducive to satisfying
the approximate
curvature constraints
that are often required by
the path planning problem.
Since a spiral is a polynomial
function of curvature,
the curvature value will
not change extremely
quickly like it can in
the case of quintic splines.
This means we can
constrain the curvature of
only a few points
in the spiral and
the spiral will
very likely satisfy
the curvature constraints
across the entire curve.
This is highly useful when
performing path optimization,
as the number of constraints
greatly increases
the computational effort
of each optimization step.
The downside of using polynomial
spirals is that there is
no closed form solution of
the position and
heading of the spiral,
unlike the case in
the quintic spline.
Therefore, we must perform
an iterative
optimization in order to
generate a spiral that satisfies
our boundary conditions.
As can be seen here,
the position equations
results in Fresnel integrals,
which have no closed
form solution.
We therefore need to use
numerical approximation
techniques to
compute the final end points
of the spiral.
In this module, we
will approximate
these Fresnel integrals using
Simpson's rule shown
here on the third line.
Simpson's rule is
more accurate with
fewer points than
other approximation methods,
which will be useful when we
setup our optimization problem.
When it comes to the strengths
and weaknesses of the spiral,
we almost have a duality
when compared to the spline,
each has a weak point
where the other is strong.
The spline provides
closed form solutions
based on start and
end points alone,
whereas the spiral does not.
The spiral ensures
smooth curvature variation
along the path,
while the spline does not.
You will therefore need
to determine which method
is appropriate depending on
your specific application.
As a brief shorthand,
the spline leads to
computational efficiency,
while the spiral leads to
easier implementation of
curvature constraints.
For this module, we will focus on
the polynomial spirals as we
develop our path planner,
as we have a strong interest in
ensuring the paths generated by
our local planner can be
executed smoothly and
safely by the vehicle.
However, many of
the techniques described going
forward can also be applied
to quintic splines.
Let's summarize this lesson.
We gave you an overview of
the boundary conditions and
parametric curves used in
autonomous driving path planning,
and we introduced splines and
spirals as alternative
path representations,
and discuss their differences
in the path planning context.
In our next lesson,
we'll be discussing how to
set up the path planning
optimization problem
using the cubic spiral
parametrization we
discussed in this lesson,
as well as the constraints
and objective functions
we defined earlier in this
course. We will see you there.